# PAM_Deep_Learning_Undersampling_Publication
 This project contains the continued work to perfect a model for upsampling undersampled Photoacoustic Microscopy (PAM) images.
 
 **Abstract**—The primary limitation of the current photoacoustic microscopy (PAM) landscape, especially in imaging transient biological events, is the necessary balance between resolution and imaging speed. In this study, we propose a novel application of deep learning principles to reconstruct undersampled photoacoustic microscopy images of murine brain microvasculature. By upsampling PAM data taken at faster image acquisition speeds (i.e. undersampled), we offer a way to transcend the current trade-off between resolution and imaging speed by drawing upon a vast store of learned prior knowledge for the purposes of inference. In the search to perfect our upsampling reconstruction procedure, we settled upon a deep learning method known as convolutional neural networks (CNNs). After preliminary tests comparing various different CNN architectures, we found that a fully dense U-Net (FD U-Net) model produced the best results. In order to establish ground-truth (i.e. fully sampled) images, we took high-resolution images of murine brain microvasculature and artificially downsampled this data at specific downsampling ratios, reminiscent of various possible raster scan motor step sizes. By performing this artificial uniform downsampling, which is equivalent to the ideal downsampling performed in the lab, we gained the ability to not only establish ground truth data but also train and test the performance of our model at various different downsampling ratios. Our numerical results and our reconstructed images illustrate our deep learning model’s ability to accurately recreate PAM images from 20% to about 5% of the original pixels, thereby decreasing image acquisition time by up to approximately 20 times. In addition, because the model can be easily retrained for multiple different downsampling ratios, the level of downsampling can therefore also be customizable depending upon the granularity of the experiment being performed.
